<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Author&#8217;s Home</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="radio.label">
  <h1 id="radio.label">Author&#8217;s Home</h1>
  <p>If you have the financial ability to do so without going into debt, I recommend you do as much as possible at a single go. However when you do not have the financial ability to do so, the project can be broken up into stages to allow financial recovery from one stage before investing in the next stage.</p>
  <p>Doing things in stages still can allow you to start saving money by elimination the cable bill early. This was our plan, and hopefully it will inspire someone else to figure out how to do something similar.</p>
  <section id="home" aria-labelledby="home.label">
    <h2 id="home.label">Brief Fescription of Our Home</h2>
    <p>The house is a five bedroom single story house with an attic.</p>
    <p>From the point of view of a compass, the front of our house points roughly 30° West of North (330° heading) but I will just call it North. When you are standing in the front driveway facing the house, there is an &#8216;East Garage&#8217; to your left and a &#8216;West Garage&#8217; to your right. The grounding rod is on the outside west side of the west garage.</p>
    <p>As you enter the home, there is a &#8216;East Entry Room&#8217; to your left and a &#8216;West Entry Room to your right. As you pass the entry rooms, you cross a hallways that goes from the east side of the house to the west side of the house. Continue across that hallway and you enter a large open space with the kitchen towards the right (west) and the living room to the left (east). On the east wall of the living room is an alcove with an entertainment center in it.</p>
    <p>When you enter the house and passing the entry rooms, if you turn right (west) it leads to what I call the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; which has a hallway that runs north to south. At the south side of the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; is the Master Bedroom. It has an outside wall on its south and west. At the north side of the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; is the North West bedroom. It has an outside will on its west, and shares a wall with the West Garage on its north side. The south side shares a wall with the closet of the Master Bedroom. The North West bedroom is where the broadband Internet modem is, along with the wireless router for the house.</p>
    <p>When you enter the house and passing the entry rooms, if you turn left (east) it leads to what I call the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; which has a hallway that runs north to south. At the south side of the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; is the South East bedroom. It has an outside wall on its south and east. At the north side of the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; is the North East bedroom. It has an outside wall on its east, its south wall is shared with the East Garage. Between those two rooms is a room we call the &#8216;Sewing Room&#8217;.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="ota" aria-labelledby="ota.label">
    <h2 id="ota.label">Over The Air Reception Plan</h2>
    <p>For television, we wanted <abbr>OTA</abbr> broadcasts available in all five of the bedrooms, the living room, and an additional run for a WiFi accessible <abbr>DVR</abbr>. The logical place to install a WiFi accessible <abbr>DVR</abbr> is in the North West bedroom because that is where the home router is located.</p>
    <p>This means three coaxial runs to the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; (two bedrooms plus the WiFi accessible <abbr>DVR</abbr>) and four coaxial runs to the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; (three bedrooms plus living room entertainment center).</p>
    <p>Strategically, this is best accomplished with a three-way passive splitter in the attic for the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; and a four-way passive splitter in the attic from the &#8216;East Wing&#8217;. Those two splitters would them be fed by a two-way amplified distributor which is fed by the antenna. We toyed with the idea of just using two antennas installed in the attic&#8212;one for each wing&#8212;and no amplification. However when taking a look inside the attic, <abbr>HVAC</abbr> ducts with their shiny reflective coatings made me change my mind on that plan. The two antennas would still have to be fairly close to each other physically to both point in proper direction with least risk of interference, so we decided a amplified two-way splitter was best.</p>
    <p>For radio, we (mostly me) wanted <abbr>OTA</abbr> broadcasts available in the two &#8216;West Wing&#8217; bedrooms, the West Entry Room, and the living room entertainment center. A total of four coaxial runs.</p>
    <p>Strategically, this is best accomplished with an outdoor antenna installed where the west side of the house meets the West Garage as that location allows easy access to the grounding rod. A four-way splitter would then provide relatively short coaxial runs to the three runs on the west side, with a single longer run to the west side. As some of the radio stations are distant, the radio run needs amplification even with just a four-way split. Amplified distributors that work in the <abbr>AM</abbr> frequency band either do not exist or are difficult to find, so an inline amplifier was decided upon.</p>
    <p>Power for both the television antenna amplified distributor and the radio antenna amplifier would be supplied from the West Garage where it is relatively easy to troubleshoot or replace the transformer bricks if one or both of them fail in the future.</p>
    <p>Accomplishing all of this was broken down into a four phases in order to spread the financial burden without needing a lot of financing. Note that the money saved from just one year of cable television will more than pay for it, but there is still an upfront cost.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="phase1" aria-labelledby="phase1.label">
    <h2 id="phase1.label">Phase 1: West Wing</h2>
    <p>For this phase, the initial phase, the television antenna is installed in the attic and the coaxial runs for the bedroom in the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; are run. Even though the radio antenna is not installed yet, running the coaxial cable for radio in those two rooms makes sense as we will be using a single &#8216;low voltage&#8217; bracket for both of the televion and radio coaxial outputs.</p>
    <p>We could have also done the coaxial run for the radio in the West Entry Room at this point, but that room has a Bose Wave with the intent to install it permanently in wall of bookshelves that are being used as sort of a china cabinet. That would require finding which bookshelf has the outlet behind it, moving that bookshelf and drilling a hole in the back of the bookshelf, <abbr>etc.</abbr> so that was delayed until Phase 2.</p>
    <p>Phase 1 thus involves five coaxial runs, three from television and two for radio. Hardware required involves the antenna, the three-way passive splitter for television, the four-way passive splitter for radio, three &#8216;old work&#8217; 1 gang boxes, two &#8216;two port&#8217; wall inserts and one &#8216;one port&#8217; wall inserts. Along with cover plates.</p>
    <p>A 250 foot pull box of quad-shield copper-clad steel core RG-6 coaxial cable along with compression connectors was also needed. 250 feet is excessive but the excess will be used.</p>
    <p>Also bought for Phase 1 were cable labels, staples for guiding the coaxial runs in the attic, and 75Ω termination caps.</p>
    <p>For the television 3-way passive splitter, the run for the <abbr>DVR</abbr> got the -3.5 dB output and the two runs for televisions got the -7 dB outputs. All outputs were used. For the radio 4-way passive splitter, only two outputs were used so two 75Ω termination caps were loosely (hand tight) put into the unused outputs just to protect them from possible moisture.</p>
    <p>After using a coaxial connection tester to verify conductivity between the splitter inputs and the wall jack outputs, 75Ω termination caps were placed into the radio output for the master bedroom and the <abbr>DVR</abbr> output in the North West bedroom. A 75Ω termination cap was loosely placed into the radio 4-way splitter input. A coaxial run was then made from the three-way splitter to the antenna, giving immediate <abbr>OTR</abbr> broadcast to the two television in the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; bedrooms.</p>
    <p>The following month, we were able to afford a four-tuner TablotTV &#8216;Tablo QUAD Over-The-Air DVR&#8217; and an external 1 TB <abbr>USB</abbr> drive. We went external just to make it easier to replace the hard drive if it failed. We could then completely elimate the cable TV bill, streaming <abbr>OTA</abbr> content to the televisions without an antenna hookup.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="phase2" aria-labelledby="phase2.label">
    <h2 id="phase2.label">Phase 2: Amplifier Power</h2>
    <p>With no more cable bill, financial recovery from the Phase 1 expense did not take long.</p>
    <p>For phase 2, we installed the coaxial runs needed to provide signal amplification for both broadcast television and broadcast radio, the two-way amplified distributor we would need to bring signal to the &#8216;West Wing&#8217;, and also the radio coaxial run for the West Entry Room.</p>
    <p>As the planned installation of the future radio antenna is on the west side of the house, using the West Garage as the location for the amplifier power bricks made the most sense. We could have run Romex in the attic but power transformers sometimes fail, I did not want to have to climb up into the attic just to troubleshoot one. Also, running Romex adds to the complexity.</p>
    <p>For Phase 2, hardware we needed a Pixel Technology &#8216;PS-1 Power Inserter kit&#8217; for the broadcast radio (it includes the power inserter and the 5V <abbr>DC</abbr> transformer) and a Channel Master &#8216;Ultra Mini 2&#8217; for broadcast television (it also includes the 12V <abbr>DC</abbr> transformer), 100 feet of quad-shield copper core RG-6, two &#8216;old work&#8217; 1 gang boxes, two &#8216;two port&#8217; wall inserts and one &#8216;one port&#8217; wall inserts. Along with cover plates.</p>
    <p>It also needed molly bolts and a wall-mountable power bar.</p>
    <p>First I ran the coaxial run for the radio in the West Entry Hallway. In my mind, that was actually finishing up phase 1. After using a coaxial connection tester to verify the connection, the Bose Wave was connected to the wall jack. The Bose Wave does not tune <abbr>AM</abbr> so a band seperator was not needed, and the <abbr>FM</abbr> antenna it came with was lost so even though the outdoor <abbr>FM</abbr> antenna is not yet installed, figured might as well just hook it up. For that run I used leftover quad-shield copper-clad steel RG-6.</p>
    <p>In the West Garage, the wall used for the transformers has cabinets against it, so the two 1 gang box was installed high and a power bar was mounted high on the wall near it. That allows easy access to <abbr>AC</abbr> power and the coaxial jacks even with the cabinet against the wall.</p>
    <p>Because they carry <abbr>DC</abbr> voltage, more expensive copper core was used to run coax to those jacks.</p>
    <p>For the broadcast radio Power Inserter, the coaxial run was very short. After verifying the line did carry 5V <abbr>DC</abbr> the transformer was unplugged as it is not needed yet. I did attach the coax to the power in F connector jack on the Power Inserter but I did not yet run the short piece of coaxial cable from the Power Inserter <abbr>RF</abbr> output to the splitter <abbr>RF</abbr> input, instead decising to just loosely attach 75Ω termination caps on both the <abbr>RF</abbr> input and <abbr>RF</abbr> output of the Power Inserter.</p>
    <p>For the broadcast television two-way amplified distributor, it was a longer coaxial run. After verifying the coaxial run carried the 12V <abbr>DC</abbr>, the transformer was unplugged and I attached the coax to the power in F connector jack on the distributor. The coax run from the &#8216;West Wing&#8217; splitter was then detached from the antenna and attached to one of the outputs on the distributor, with a 75Ω termination cap on the other. A short piece of coax (copper clad steel) then fed a Channel Master <abbr>LTE</abbr> from the antenna, and short piece of coax fed the distributor input from the <abbr>LTE</abbr> filter output. The transformer brick was then plugged back in.</p>
    <p>Phase two did not any television or radio service but it provided the amplified distributor that allows for Phase 3.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="phase3" aria-labelledby="phase3.label">
    <h2 id="phase3.label">Phase 3: East Wing</h2>
    <p>Phase 3 only deals with three bedrooms in the East Wing and was the least expensive phase.</p>
    <p>For hardware, it required a four-way passive splitter, three &#8216;old work&#8217; 1 gang boxes, three one &#8216;one port&#8217; wall inserts. Along with cover plates. We did buy another 250 foot pull box of quad-shield copper-clad RG-6.</p>
    <p>The three broadcast television runs were installed on the four-way splitter and and the fourth port on the splitter had a 75Ω termination cap scewed on. using a coaxial connection tester to verify conductivity between the splitter inputs and the wall jack outputs, a 75Ω termination cap was placed on the wall in jack in the South East bedroom as it does not yet have a television, the 75Ω termination cap on the second output from the amplified distributor was removed, and coax was run from the four-way splitter to that amplified distributor output.</p>
    <p>All coaxial in Phase 3 was copper-clad steel core.</p>
    <p>After phase 3, six of the seven broadcast televison runs had been completed. Only the entertainment center still needed coaxial runs to it.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="phase4" aria-labelledby="phase4.label">
    <h2 id="phase4.label">Phase 4: Entertainment Center Rebuild</h2>
    <p>The entertainment center is on the east side of the living room, built into an alcove. About &#8531; of the horizontal space is wasted on shelving which limits the size of a television that can be installed, presently it has a 40" diagonal which is the largest it can accomodate and also restricts air flow as it is a tight fit.</p>
    <p>For the <abbr title="Too Long, Didn’t Read">TLDR</abbr> we added a coaxial run for broadcast radio and broadcast television finishing the coaxial network. You can <a href="#phase5">Skip to Phase 5</a>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="phase5" aria-labelledby="phase5.label">
    <h2 id="phase5.label">Phase 5: Broadcast Radio Antenna</h2>
    <p>For broadcast radio, the first step was to remove the existing sattelite <abbr>TV</abbr> antenna we do not use from the existing mast. An antenna mast ground clamp was installed a coaxial grounding block was installed, and ground clamps for the water main were installed. Solid copper grounding wire was then run from the antenna mast and the coaxial grounding block to the water main clamps, so that both were properly <a href="bond_earth_ground.xhtml">earthed</a>.</p>
    <p>Making sure there were no weather storms forcasted during the following week, I performed the <a href="radio.xhtml#reftest">Antenna Reference Test</a> using an inexpensive but quality indoor antenna.</p>
    <p>The following day I installed the Pixel Technologies AFHD-4 <abbr>AM</abbr>/<abbr>FM</abbr> antenna onto the mast and ran coaxial cable from it directly through my window to my analog radio to perform <a href="radio.xhtml#test1">Antenna Test 1</a> that night. Note that this test was performed without the coaxial grounding block and therefore was not <abbr>NEC</abbr> compliant.</p>
    <p>The day following that test, I ran solid copper core from the four-way splitter to the grounding block. This was to bypass the power inserter for <a href="radio.xhtml#test1">Antenna Test 2</a>. A short piece of coaxial cable was installed from the antenna to the grounding block, and Antenna Test 2 was performed that night.</p>
    <p>Following day, I climbed into attic for last time (at least related to coaxial runs). I disconnected the coaxial cable at the four-way splitter input and shortened just enough (with a little play) to attach to the power inserer <abbr>RF</abbr> input, and with what was cut off, cut another short piece to go from the power inserter <abbr>RF</abbr> ouput to the four-way splitter input.</p>
    <p>Then outside, the inline surge protector was screwed directly into the amplifier <abbr>RF</abbr> input and a small length of solid copper core coaxial cable was attached to the amplifier <abbr>RF</abbr> output. This was then installed up near the coaxial grounding block with the coaxial cable screwed into the grounding block. A small run of coaxial cable then went from the antenna to the inline surge protector <abbr>RF</abbr> input.</p>
    <p>The power brick was plugged in to supply 5V <abbr>DC</abbr> to the power inserter, and the Bose Wave in the West Entry Room was used to test <abbr>FM</abbr> reception, making sure it got the <abbr>FM</abbr> stations that Antenna Test 1 indicated it should likely be able to tune.</p>
    <p>That night, <a href="radio.xhtml#test3">Antenna Test 3</a> was performed and the following night, <a href="radio.xhtml#test4">Antenna Test 4</a> was performed.</p>
    <p>Installation is complete. All five bedrooms plus a <abbr>DVR</abbr> and the living room entertainment center have <abbr>OTA</abbr> broadcast television, and the two &#8216;West Wing&#8217; bedrooms, the West Entry Room, and the living room entertainment center have <abbr>OTA</abbr> broadcast radio.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="hypothetical" aria-labelledby="hypothetical.label">
    <h2 id="hypothetical.label">Hypothetical Updates</h2>
    <p>If we wanted the three bedrooms in the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; to have <abbr>OTA</abbr> broadcast radio as well, a four-way splitter with its own amplifier would be needed using the current four-way splitter &#8216;entertainment center&#8217; output as its input. It could be done, but there would a lower signal to noise ratio for the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; and the entertainment center as a result.</p>
    <p>To accomplish this, the power inserter would be removed so the coaxial cable runs directly from the grounding block to the existing four-way splitter. Very close to the output that services the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; a second MBA-12 amplifier would be installed with the power inserter installed shortly after that.</p>
    <p>The 5V <abbr>DC</abbr> would then power the second amplifier and pass through the first four-way splitter to power the amplifier by the antenna as well.</p>
    <p>The <abbr>RF</abbr> output from the inserer would then have a coaxial run to the &#8216;East Wing&#8217; where it would feed the four-way splitter that services the three bedrooms and the entertainment center. In theory this would work&#8212;<em>possibly</em> with some lost reception of distant stations due to <abbr>RF</abbr> noise that enters prior to the second amplifier being amplified&#8212;but we have no interest in trying it.</p>
    <p>Another possible upgrade would be to add SiriusXM to the broadcast coaxial network. All the parts except for the band separators already support the frequencies SiriusXM uses, so all we would need to do (in addition to adding a SiriusXM satellite antenna at the <abbr>AM</abbr>/<abbr>FM</abbr> antenna) is swap out the existing band separators for band separator that includes a SiriusXM broadcast band output. At this time, we do not have interest in doing that.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>