<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Coaxial Cables and Accessories</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/a11y.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="coax.label">
  <h1 id="coax.label">Coaxial Cables and Accessories</h1>
  <p>For 75Ω impedence antenna systems, there are basically five different types of coaxial cable to consider. There are also several tools and accessories that you will need when working with coaxial cable runs.</p>
  <p>Note that I am not a proffesional antenna installer but for this project I felt it important to both educate myself and create a basic toolkit for coaxial related work. For specific tasks there are other tools but the tools described here (after the coaxial cable types) are a good core set to always keep together.</p>
  <div role="navigation">
    <ol>
      <li><a href="#rg59">RG-59</a></li>
      <li><a href="#rg6ds">Dual-Shield RG-6</a></li>
      <li><a href="#rg6qs.clad">Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Clad</a></li>
      <li><a href="#rg6qs.core">Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Core</a></li>
      <li><a href="#rg11">RG-11</a></li>
      <li><a href="#reflection">Signal Reflection</a></li>
      <li><a href="#ftools">F Connectors and Coaxial Tools</a><ol>
        <li><a href="#fconnectors">F Connectors</a></li>
        <li><a href="#tools">Coaxial Tools</a></li>
        <li><a href="#wrench">7/16 Wrench</a></li>
        <li><a href="#screwdrivers">Screwdrivers</a></li>
        <li><a href="#coax.test">Connectivity Testing Tool</a></li>
      </ol></li>
      <li><a href="#accessories">Accessories</a><ol>
        <li><a href="#rightangle">Right Angle Connectors</a></li>
        <li><a href="#barrel">Barrel Connectors</a></li>
        <li><a href="#terminators">75Ω Terminator Caps</a></li>
        <li><a href="#screws">Mounting Screws</a></li>
        <li><a href="#spare">Spare 10 foot Quality Quad-Shield RG-6 Cable</a></li>
      </ol></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="rg59" aria-labelledby="rg59.label">
    <h2 id="rg59.label">RG-59</h2>
    <p>Historically, RG-59 was often used by professional installers because it was much cheaper than RG-6.</p>
    <p>At 400 MHz, RG-59 loses about 7.0 dB of signal per 100 feet while RG-6 only loses about 4.3 dB. Now that RG-6 is much more affordable and widely available, RG-59 should generally be avoided for television and radio signals.</p>
    <p>At very short distances where flexibility is needed&#8212;such as between your wall jack and your television&#8212;the signal loss difference will be very small which may make choosing RG-59 for that small distance an accessible trade-off for the increased flexibility.</p>
    <p>RG-59 should not be used between the antenna and your wall jacks and really should only be used between a wall jack and a tuner when you just happen to have excess lying around. Even then it probably is better not to use it.</p>
    <section id="rg59.klein" aria-labelledby="rg59.klein.label">
      <h3 id="rg59.klein.label">RG-59 Klein F Compression Connectors</h3>
      <p>If using RG-59, the correct <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Universal-F-Compression-Connector-for-RG59-VDV812-615/203579032" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools F Compression Connectors</a> will have a <strong>red band</strong> and will be labelled for RG59. Note that not all brands of F Compression Connectors follow the same color scheme that Klein Tools uses.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="rg6ds" aria-labelledby="rg6ds.label">
    <h2 id="rg6ds.label">Dual-Shield RG-6</h2>
    <p>While not as flexible as RG-59, Dual-Shield RG-6 is much more flexible than Quad-Shield RG-6.</p>
    <p>It often works just fine inside a wall but with longer runs Dual-Shield RG-6 is more susceptible to interference than Quad-Shield RG-6 which can degrade the Signal to Noise Ratio (<abbr>SNR</abbr>) potentially causing some reception issues.</p>
    <p>Due to the increased flexibility, I recommend Dual-Shield RG-6 for the initial antenna location testing and for the short runs from the wall plate to the <abbr>ATSC</abbr> or radio receiver.</p>
    <p>White is often a more aesthetic color coating for the run from the wall plate to the receiver and 100 feet is a good length for testing the antenna location.</p>
    <p>You can by <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Southwire-100-ft-18-RG6-Dual-Shield-CU-CATV-CM-CL2-Coaxial-Cable-in-White-56918343/202316594" title="Internet Resource">100 feet of white Dual-Shield RG-6</a> for your antenna location test, and then repurpose it for the shorter runs from the wall plates to the tuners.</p>
    <section id="rg6ds.klein" aria-labelledby="rg6ds.klein.label">
      <h3 id="rg6ds.klein.label">Dual-Shield Klein F Compression Connectors</h3>
      <p>If using Dual-Shield RG-6, the correct <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Universal-F-Compression-Connector-for-RG59-VDV812-615/203579032" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools F Compression Connectors</a> will have a <strong>blue band</strong> and will be labelled for RG6 but it <strong>NOT</strong> be labelled for RG6/6Q. Note that not all brands of F Compression Connectors follow the same color scheme that Klein Tools uses.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="rg6qs.clad" aria-labelledby="rg6qs.clad.label">
    <h2 id="rg6qs.clad.label">Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Clad</h2>
    <p>Quad-Shield RG-6 is far less susceptible to <abbr>RF</abbr> interference than Dual-Shield RG-6, though it is a little less flexible.</p>
    <p>When only carrying an <abbr>RF</abbr> signal, there is no performance difference between a copper-clad steel core and a solid copper core, so Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Clad is what I recommend for most if not all of the coaxial cable runs between your antenna and the wall plates.</p>
    <p>Even if you need more than 250 feet for the sum of all your runs, I recommend buying 250 feet pull boxes. They are much easier to work with than reels and the weight of 250 feet is still light enough to make it easy to climb up into your attic with it. Make sure a quality brand is used, and make sure the coaxial cable has marking so it is easy to see how much you used for a particular run. In the event you are running it in plenum space or in an <abbr>HVAC</abbr> duct, make sure it is plenum rated.</p>
    <p>The Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Clad that I used is the <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Mediabridge-Broadband-Coaxial-Cable-Black/dp/B0193RRT2W" title="Internet Resource">Mediabridge Black (250 feet) Pull-Out Box</a>. It is more expensive than the same length of other brands at the chain hardware stores but I wanted to reduce the odds of cable failure over time.</p>
    <section id="rg6qs.clad.klein" aria-labelledby="rg6qs.clad.klein.label">
      <h3 id="rg6qs.clad.klein.label">Quad-Shield RG-6 Klein Tools F Compression Connectors</h3>
      <p>If using Quad-Shield RG-6 (core type is irrelevant), the correct <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Universal-F-Compression-Connector-for-RG6-6Q-10-Pack-VDV812-606/203578626" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools F Compression Connectors</a> will have a <strong>yellow band</strong> and will be labelled for RG6/6Q. Note that not all brands of F Compression Connectors follow the same color scheme that Klein Tools uses.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="rg6qs.core" aria-labelledby="rg6qs.core.label">
    <h2 id="rg6qs.core.label">Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Core</h2>
    <p>A solid copper core versus copper-clad steel core makes <em>absolutely no difference</em> for <abbr>RF</abbr> transmission over the coaxial cable.</p>
    <p>However for the <em>direct current</em> used to power amplification, solid copper core does have less resistance than copper-clad steel and therefore is <em>preferable</em> though it is not critical. Amplifiers will still do their job even with copper-clad steel. Allegedly some sattelite dish controllers are touchy and require copper core if the run is over a certain length, check with your sattelite vendor for the RG-6 requirements if using RG-6 to carry a voltage to a sattelite dish controller. In the event you are running coaxial cable in plenum space or in an <abbr>HVAC</abbr> duct, make sure it is plenum rated.</p>
    <p>The disadvantage to using copper-core is that it is more expensive than copper-clad steel.</p>
    <p>For coaxial runs that carry <abbr>DC</abbr> voltage, I do recommend using Quad-Shield RG-6 Copper-Core but only if you can find it in lengths that are not excessive to your needs. Phat Satellite <abbr>Intl</abbr> sells it in various lengths on Amazon, e.g. <a href="https://www.amazon.com/PHAT-SATELLITE-INTL-Satellite-Broadband/dp/B01GC0T61A" title="Internet Resource">100 feet Quad Shield Solid Copper 3GHZ RG-6 Coaxial Cable</a> is what I used for my <abbr>DC</abbr> voltage needs.</p>
    <section id="rg6qs.core.klein" aria-labelledby="rg6qs.core.klein.label">
      <h3 id="rg6qs.core.klein.label">Quad-Shield RG-6 Klein Tools F Compression Connectors</h3>
      <p>If using Quad-Shield RG-6 (core type is irrelevant), the correct <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Universal-F-Compression-Connector-for-RG6-6Q-10-Pack-VDV812-606/203578626" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools F Compression Connectors</a> will have a <strong>yellow band</strong> and will be labelled for RG6/6Q. Note that not all brands of F Compression Connectors follow the same color scheme that Klein Tools uses.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="rg11" aria-labelledby="rg11.label">
    <h2 id="rg11.label">RG-11</h2>
    <p>For long runs, RG-11 does have less signal loss than RG-6 but it is expensive, very thick, and extremely difficult to work with for any runs that are not straight.</p>
    <p>For runs under 100 feet, the <a href="#reflection">reflective properties of RG-11</a> may actually make it worse than RG-6.</p>
    <p>For runs from 100 feet to 200 feet, the benefit is not worth the difficulty of working with RG-11, it <em>usually</em> better to overcome signal loss through signal amplification unless there really is not way to power an amplifier at the start of the run.</p>
    <p>For runs that are over 200 feet in length and relatively straight, then RG-11 could be considered.</p>
    <p>Unless you happen to live in a mansion, or if the best place for your antenna is on an out-building, RG-11 is almost certainly the wrong choice.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="reflection" aria-labelledby="reflection.label">
    <h2 id="reflection.label">Signal Reflection</h2>
    <p>When a signal travels through a wire and meets any form of impedance or resistance, part of the signal will be reflected back. It is like water rushing in a creek that suddenly meets a bottleneck. Some of the water bounces back towards the source. Reflection can degrade the quality of a signal. The reflective distance is how far back the signal will reflect before it is reduced to below the noise floor.</p>
    <p>The lower the signal loss qualites of a coaxial cable, the large that reflective distance is.</p>
    <p>We often like to think of an <abbr>RF</abbr> signal traveling from the antenna to our television, but in reality its an oscillation that flows both ways. For this reason, a length of coaxial should be at least <em>twice</em> the reflective distance for that kind of coaxial cable. When a shorter length is needed between two connection points, the coaxial cable should be looped. Looping with RG-11 however is not realistic.</p>
    <p>With RG-6 the reflective distance is about a foot so coaxial cable lengths of RG-6 should be at least two feet in length. I do not know the reflective distance of RG-59 but the two foot rule for RG-6 is a good rule of thumb as RG-59 will have a lower reflective distance. RG-11 has a fify foot reflective distance so lengths of RG-11 should be at least 100 feet. A damaged coaxial cable (kinked or squashed) could have a reflection point inside it, try to avoid damaging the coaxial cable.</p>
    <p>Reflection is also why all runs that do not attach to a tuner and all unused outputs on splitter or amplified distributor should have a 75Ω termination cap. When a coaxial output or cable is not connected to something, it is an open circuit and the botleneck that causes reflection is where the run starts, not where it ends. This can result in reflective signal degration for the other runs that are in use. A 75Ω termination cap closes that open circuit reducing the reflection.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="ftools" aria-labelledby="ftools.label">
    <h2 id="ftools.label">F Connectors and Coaxial Tools</h2>
    <section id="fconnectors" aria-labelledby="fconnectors.label">
      <h3 id="fconnectors.label">F Connectors</h3>
      <p>In the United States, cabling generally uses what are called &#8216;F Connectors&#8217; for 75Ω coaxial television and radio antenna connections. The coaxial cable will typically have a &#8216;Male F Connector&#8217; attached to both ends. There are three methods of attaching a &#8216;Male F Connector&#8217; to coaxial cable:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>&#8216;Push-On&#8217; Connector</li>
        <li>&#8216;Screw-On&#8217; Connector</li>
        <li>Compression Connector</li>
      </ol>
      <p>Do not use the &#8216;Push-On&#8217; connectors. They really are only intended for temporary use despite the fact that they are marketed to consumers as a solution that does not require tools to install. They come off too easily.</p>
      <p>Do not the use &#8216;Screw-On&#8217; connectors. They are a little better than the &#8216;Push-On&#8217; but not much better. What they do is tap a thread into the jacket of the coaxial cable as they are screwed into place. When I lived in Redding and before I knew better, I used &#8216;Screw-On&#8217; connectors for my coaxial runs and they did work, but they all eventually failed.</p>
      <p>Do use the Compression connectors. Yes, they require an additional tool to properly install but they are far less likely to come apart.</p>
      <p>For the compression connectors, they are often marketed as &#8216;Universal&#8217; but it seems these sometimes are problematic for some users with dual-shield RG-6 and slip off if not used correctly. I recommend only using the the &#8216;Universal&#8217; connectors with quad-shield unless you have no other choice.</p>
      <p>Klein Tools red band F connectors will work with <em>most</em> RG-59 but will not work with RG-6. Klein Tools blue band connectors will work with <em>most</em> Dual-Shield RG-6 but is not likely to work with Quad-Shield RG-6. Klein Tools yellow-band connectors will are &#8216;Universal&#8217; RG-6 and work with <em>most</em> Quad-Shield RG-6 and <em>frequently</em> will also work with Dual-Shield RG-6 but I only recommend it for Quad-Shield RG-6.</p>
      <p>I <em>personally</em> recommend the Klein Tools compression connectors. However since I started using compression connectors I have not tried any other brands. I chose their compression connectors because I chose their tools and was more confident their connectors would work properly with their tools. There likely are other brands that work just as well.</p>
      <p>I keep both Klein Tools &#8216;Blue&#8217; and &#8216;Yellow&#8217; connectors in a <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Containers-Organizers-Earplugs-Accessories-2-83x2-83x0-71/dp/B08FJ55VB5" title="Internet Resource">small hinged plastic box</a> that snaps shut in my coaxial tool bag. I do not work with RG-59 so I do not have those compression connectors.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="tools" aria-labelledby="tools.label">
      <h3 id="tools.label">Coaxial Tools</h3>
      <p>Particularly when going into an attic without flooring I recommend having a tool bag specific for your coaxial tools. I use an inexpensibe <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Husky-15-in-Wide-Mouth-Water-Resistant-Metal-Hardware-Dual-Zipper-Tool-Storage-Bag-with-Adjustable-Strap-and-8-pockets-HD60015-TH/312387454" title="Internet Resource">Husky Bag</a> that has a convenient shoulder strap.</p>
      <p>For cutting coaxial cable you will need a good pair of cable cutters that can cut it quickly and cleanly. I personally use the <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Compact-Cable-Cutter-63215/312213228" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools Compact Cable Cutter</a>. The size makes it easy to bring with you into the attic yet it still has to torque needed to make a nice clean professional cut.</p>
      <p>Once you have the nice clean cut, before you can install the compression connector you have to strip the coaxial cable twice. The first strip larger strip removes the coating and then a short strip removes the dielectic from around the core wire.</p>
      <p>It is tempting to use standard wire strippers to do this and it <em>can</em> be done that way but it really is better to use a tool specifically designed for the job. I use the<a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-2-Level-Coaxial-Cable-Stripper-VDV110-061/202721783" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools 2-Level Coaxial Stripper</a>. That tool makes it easy to get it right. There is a little extra work that needs to be done after using the tool.</p>
      <p>Once the cable is ready for the compression connector. The tool I use to actually make the compression is the <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-9-in-Compact-F-Connector-Compression-Crimper-VDV212-008-SEN/203578631" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools 9 inch Compact F-Connector Compression Crimper.</a>. That particular tool only does F-connectors, they do make a larger one that also can be used for <abbr>BNC</abbr> and <abbr>RCA></abbr> connectors that may be a better purchase if you expect to work with those kind of connectors too.</p>
      <p>There is an excellent video on YouTube by ToolZine shows the process of using Klein Tools to install a compression F-connector on coaxial cable: <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qo8KLJcrYiU" title="Internet Resource">www.youtube.com/watch?v=qo8KLJcrYiU</a>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="wrench" aria-labelledby="wrench.label">
      <h3 id="wrench.label">7/16 Wrench</h3>
      <p>The nuts that tighten a male F connector to a female receptacle are <abbr>SAE</abbr> 7/16 inch. You can sometimes get away with using a metric 12mm but it will not be a tight fit, you should have an actual 7/16 inch wrench and it should have a short handle both to avoid too much torque and to allow it to be used in tight places.</p>
      <p>The <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/TEKTON-7-16-in-Stubby-Combination-Wrench-18046/207112396" title="Internet Resource">Tekton 7/16 inch Stubby Combination Wrench</a> is a good choice. Keep one with your coaxial tools.</p>
      <p>While not often needed, an angle-head variant can sometimes be beneficial: <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/TEKTON-7-16-in-Angle-Head-Open-End-Wrench-WAE83011/307821075" title="Internet Resource">Tekton 7/16 inch Angle Head Open End Wrench</a>.</p>
      <p><strong>IMPORTANT:</strong> Never over-tighten the nut on an F connector or you can break something. Use your fingers to hand tighten it and then use the wrench to just tighten it barely a tad bit more.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="screwdrivers" aria-labelledby="screwdrivers.label">
      <h3 id="screwdrivers.label">Screwdrivers</h3>
      <p>A <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Husky-1-x-3-in-Square-Shaft-Standard-Phillips-Screwdriver-H1X3PHSD/302348540">#1 x 3 inch phillips screwdriver</a> is really handy for mounting splitters and amplified distributors. A <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Husky-2-x-4-in-Square-Shaft-Standard-Phillips-Screwdriver-H2X4PHSD/302346449" title="Internet Resource">#2 x 4 inch phillips screwdriver</a> is frequently beneficial for antenna installations. You likely already have equivalents but they are inexpensive and it is good to have some to specifically always keep these with your coaxial specific tools.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="coax.test" aria-labelledby="coax.test.label">
      <h3 id="coax.test.label">Connectivity Testing Tool</h3>
      <p>This <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Coax-Explorer-2-VDV512-100/303834923" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools Coax Explorer 2</a> is not absolutely needed but when there is a problem, it can be very useful. I keep this in the tool bag but remove it when I will not be using it to reduce the clutter.</p>
      <p>The tool has a remote that you place on one end of a coaxial run, and you then connect the tester to the other end. Push a button, and you can verify the coaxial cable works.</p>
      <p>As with any tool with batteries, remove the batteries when you will not be using it for awhile.</p>
      <p>They also sell a <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-Coax-Explorer-2-Remote-Kit-VDV512-110/303834924" title="Internet Resource">Coax Explorer Remote Kit</a> that has four different color coded remotes (one duplicates the remote that comes with the tool). This remote kit is very handy for testing several runs at once. Simply put a remote on each wall plate that comes off of a splitter and use the test on the splitter. You can then see which coaxial runs have a connection and which runs have a problem.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="accessories" aria-labelledby="accessories.label">
    <h2 id="accessories.label">Coaxial Accessories</h2>
    <p>With the exception of the test cable listed at the end, I like to keep some of these in my tool bag at all times. Like compression connectors, I keep these in small plastic hinged boxes that snap shut.</p>
    <section id="rightangle" aria-labelledby="rightangle.label">
      <h3 id="rightangle.label">Right Angle Connectors</h3>
      <p>Coaxial cable does not like to make sharp bends. In many cases, installation of a cable can be greatly simplified if a right angle (90°) connector is used. Televisions and wall-plates are a common place where there are beneficial.</p>
      <p>Amazon has them in five packs: <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0107JMFZQ" title="Internet Resource">VCE 5-Pack 90 Degree Coaxial Connector</a>. I am not convinced the gold plating has real-world benefit beyond marketing.</p>
      <p>Home Depot has them in two packs: <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Ideal-90-Coaxial-F-Type-Adapters-2-per-Pack-85-070/202825055" title="Internet Resource">Ideal 90° Coaxial F-Type Adapters</a>.</p>
      <p>When installing these, make sure the connection is tight but do be careful not to over-tighten.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="barrel" aria-labelledby="barrel.label">
      <h3 id="barrel.label">Barrel Connectors</h3>
      <p>Barrel connectors have two female connections and are used to splice to different pieces of coaxial cables together. A coaxial wall insert for example is just a barrel connector mounted in plastic and is used to splice the run inside the wall with the run to your tuner (or to a splitter <abbr>etc.</abbr>)</p>
      <p>It is a good idea to always have some spare barrel connectors on hand.</p>
      <p>Amazon has them in five packs: <a href="https://www.amazon.com/VCE-Coaxial-Connector-Extension-Adapter/dp/B0107LH932" title="Internet Resource">VCE 5-Pack Coaxial Cable Connector</a>. I am not convinced the gold plating has real-world benefit beyond marketing.</p>
      <p>Home Depot has them in ten packs: <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Klein-Tools-3-GHz-F-Splice-Adapter-VDV814-609/203579088" title="Internet Resource">Klein Tools 3 GHz F-Splice Adapter</a>.</p>
      <p>Frequently one end is a little longer than the other. The only reason for that is allow it to easily be used in a wall plate, the longer one is placed through a hole with a really thin nut threaded over the longer end on the other side of of the plate to hold the connector to the plate.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="terminators" aria-labelledby="terminators.label">
      <h3 id="terminators.label">75Ω Terminator Caps</h3>
      <p>Any wall plate that is not currently connected to a tuner should be terminated with a 75Ω Terminator or the signal to active devices could be degraded. This also applies to unused outputs on splitters and amplified distributors.</p>
      <p>Amazon has them in 20 packs: <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Ancable-Terminator-Amplifier-Conectors-Reflection/dp/B07GW94WJY" title="Internet Resource">Ancable 20-Pack F Type Terminator Caps with 75 Ohm Resistor</a>.</p>
      <p>When you need to terminate the end of a coaxial cable with a male F connector, you will need to use a barrel connector between the coaxial cable and the barrel connector.</p>
      <p>When I install these, I only hand-tighten them as they are not likely to loosen by themselves.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="screws" aria-labelledby="screws.label">
      <h3 id="screws.label">Mounting Screws</h3>
      <p>For splitters and distribution amplifiers in the attic I prefer to mount them to the side of a joist or another beam using <a href="https://www.homedepot.com/p/Everbilt-6-x-3-4-in-Phillips-Round-Head-Zinc-Plated-Wood-Screw-8-Pack-808741/204587484" title="Internet Resource">#6 x &#190; inch wood screws</a>. It is always good to have spare screws at all times in case I have to unmount a splitter and I drop the screw into the loose insulation.</p>
      <p>When making a fresh install with #6 wood screws, drill a 9/64 (&#8539; for soft wood) inch pilot hole first to avoid splitting the wood. See <a href="https://www.boltdepot.com/fastener-information/wood-screws/Wood-Screw-Pilot-Hole-Size.aspx" title="Internet Resource">Wood Screw Pilot Hole Sizes</a>.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="spare" aria-labelledby="spare.label">
      <h3 id="spare.label">Spare 10 foot Quality Quad-Shield RG-6 Cable</h3>
      <p>Obviously I do not keep this in my tool bag.</p>
      <p>If you are like me, the flexibility of dual-shield RG-6 makes it a very attractive cable to use from the wall jack to the tuner. It usually works but there are cases where that results in the signal degrading enough that some channels have tuning issues if their signal is borderline to begin with. Even if you do use quad-shield RG-6 for those runs, it is still possible for such a cable to fail, especially if it ever has been squished or kinked.</p>
      <p>It is a good idea to have a pre-made 10 foot quad-shield RG-6 test cable that you can use when diagnosing a tuner that has problems tuning a signal to see if the run from the wall jack to the tuner is to blame.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>